---
layout: post
title: "FIX protocol"
excerpt: ""
categories: finance
tags: [finance]
comments: true
share: true
author: chungyu
---
> mainly from [FIX 4.2 SPECS](http://www.fixtradingcommunity.org/pg/file/fplpo/read/30027/fix-42-specification-documents-pdf)

# FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXCHANGE PROTOCOL
* The protocol is defined at two levels: session and application. The session level is concerned with the
delivery of data while the application level defines business related data content. This document is
organized to reflect the distinction

# Sequence Numbers
* All FIX messages are identified by a unique sequence number. Sequence numbers are initialized at the
start of each FIX session
* Each session will establish an independent incoming and outgoing sequence series; participants will
maintain a sequence series to assign to outgoing messages and a separate series to monitor for sequence
gaps on incoming messages.

# Ordered Message Processing
* The FIX protocol assumes complete ordered delivery of messages between parties.
* Two options exist for dealing with
gaps, either request all messages subsequent to the last message received or ask for the specific
message missed while maintaining an ordered list of all newer messages. For example, if the receiver
misses the second of five messages, the application could ignore messages

# Message Acknowledgment:
The FIX session protocol is based on an optimistic model; normal delivery of data is assumed (i.e. no
acknowledgment of individual messages) with errors in delivery identified by message sequence
number gaps. Each message is identified by a unique sequence number. It is the receiving
application's responsibility to monitor incoming sequence numbers to identify message gaps for
response with resend request messages.
The FIX protocol does not support individual message acknowledgment. However, a number of
application messages require explicit application level acceptance or rejection. Orders, cancel requests,
cancel/replace requests and allocation require specific application level response, executions can be
rejected with the DK message but do not require explicit acceptance.

# SESSION PROTOCOL

* A FIX session is defined as a bi-directional stream of ordered messages between two parties within a
continuous sequence number series.
* A single FIX session can exist across multiple physical connections.
* Parties can connect and disconnect multiple times while maintaining a single FIX session.
* Connecting parties must bi-laterally agree as to when sessions are to be started/stopped based upon individual system and time zone requirements.
* The FIX session protocol is based on an optimistic model.

# APPLICATION MESSAGES
### Advertisements
* Advertisement messages are used to announce completed transactions
* All message types other than NEW modify the state of a previously transmitted advertisement identified in `AdvRefID`.
*
### Indications of Interest
* Indication of interest messages market merchandise which the broker is buying or selling in either a
proprietary or agency capacity.
* All message types other than NEW modify the state of the message identified in `IOIRefID`.

### News
* The news message is a general free format message between the broker and institution.
* The message contains flags to identify the news item's urgency and to allow sorting by subject company (symbol).
* The News message can be originated at either the broker or institution side.

### Email
* The email message is similar to the format and purpose of to the News message, however, it is intended
for private use between two parties.

### Quote Request
* In some markets it is the practice to request quotes from brokers prior to placement of an order. The
quote request message is used for this purpose.
* Quotes can be requested on specific securities or forex rates.
* Securities quotes can be requested as either market quotes or for a specific quantity and side.
    * If OrderQty and Side are absent, a market-style quote (bid x offer, size x size) will be returned.

### Quote
* The quote message is used as the response to a Quote Request message and can be used to publish unsolicited quotes.
* Quotes supplied as the result of a Quote Request message are tagged with the appropriate `QuoteReqID`,
unsolicited quotes can be identified by the absence of a `QuoteReqID`.

### ...

### New Order - Single
* The new order message type is used by institutions wishing to electronically submit securities and forex
orders to a broker for execution.
* Orders can be submitted with special handling instructions and execution instructions.
    * Handling instructions refer to how the broker should handle the order on its trading floor ( `HandlInst`).
    * Execution instructions contain explicit directions as to how the order should be executed (`ExecInst`)
* New Order messages received with the `PossResend` flag set in the header should be validated by
ClOrdID. Implementations should also consider checking order parameters (`side`, `symbol`, `quantity`, etc.) to determine if the order had been previously submitted.
* The value specified in the `TransactTime` field should allow the receiver of the order to apply business rules to determine if the order is potentially "stale" (e.g. in the event that there have been
communication problems).

# Execution Reports
* The execution report message is used to:
    1. confirm the receipt of an order
    2. confirm changes to an existing order (i.e. accept cancel and replace requests)
    3. relay order status information
    4. relay fill information on working orders
    5. reject orders
    6. report post-trade fees calculations associated with a trade
* Execution reports do not replace the end-of-day confirm. Execution reports are to be regarded
only as replacements for the existing fill messages currently communicated via telephone.
* Each execution report contains three fields which are used to communicate both the current state of the
order as understood by the broker and the purpose of the message: `OrdStatus`, `ExecType` and
`ExecTransType`.
###### `OrdStatus`
* Used to convey the current state of the order.
    * `Pending Cancel`, `Pending Replace`, `Done for Day`, `Calculated`, `Filled`, `Stopped`, `Suspended`, `Canceled`, `Expired`, `Partially Filled`, `Replaced`, `New`, `Rejected`, `Pending New`, `Accepted for bidding`
###### `ExecType`
* The ExecType is used to identify the purpose of the execution report message.
* Execution information (e.g. new partial fill or complete fill) should not be communicated in the same
report as one which communicates other state changes (such as pending cancel, pending replace,
canceled, replaced, accepted, done for day etc)
