---
layout: post
title: "D3: Basics"
excerpt: "svg, data binding, basic bar chart/ scatter plot"
categories: frontend
tags: [d3]
comments: true
share: true
author: chungyu
---
> * [Scott Murray](http://alignedleft.com/tutorials/d3/binding-data)
> * [Interactive Data Visualization for the Web by Scott Murray](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920026938.do?cmp=af-strata-books-videos-product_cj_9781449339739_%25zp)

# SVG
* D3 is most useful when used to generate and manipulate visuals as Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG).
* Drawing with divs and other native HTML elements is possible, but a bit clunky and subject to the usual inconsistencies across different browsers
* SVG is a text-based image format.
  * Each SVG image is defined using markup code similar to HTML, and SVG code can be included directly within any HTML document, or inserted dynamically into the DOM.
  * SVG is XML-based, so you’ll notice that elements that don’t have a closing tag `<element></element>` must be self-closing `<element/>`.
* SVG elements is that all of their properties are specified as attributes.

> Before you can draw anything, you must create an SVG element. Think of the SVG element as a canvas on which your visuals are rendered.

* Older browsers don’t support SVG. So, generally speaking, Internet Explorer version 8 and older will not display SVG images at all.

> You might notice that when we use CSS rules to style SVG elements, only SVG attribute names—not regular CSS properties—should be used.

* CSS set the color of some tex by `p { color: olive; }`
  * if you try to set svg `text { color: olive; }` => won't work
  * Need to use `text { fill: olive; }` instead


# Data binding
* Whatever your data, it can’t be made useful and visual until it is attached to something.
* In D3 lingo, the data must be bound to elements within the page.
* But there are two things we need in place first, before we can bind data:
  * The data
  * A selection of DOM elements

##### Example

```js
var dataset = [ 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 ];

d3.select("body").selectAll("p")
    .data(dataset)
    .enter()
    .append("p")
    .text("New paragraph!");
```

* We use D3’s `selection.data()` method to bind data to DOM elements.
  * The data: `var dataset = [ 5, 10, 15, 20, 25 ];`
  * A selection of DOM elements (what elements will your data be associated with?)
    * `d3.select("body").selectAll("p")`
* `.data(dataset)` — Counts and parses our data values.
  * loop through the full length of whatever dataset you throw at it, executing each method beneath it in the chain, while updating the context in which each method operates
* How can we select elements that don’t yet exist? `enter()`.
  * To create new, data-bound elements, you must use `enter()`.
  * This method looks at the DOM, and then looks at the data being handed to it.
  * **If there are more data values than corresponding DOM elements, then `enter()` creates a new placeholder element** on which you may work your magic.
  * It then hands off a reference to this new placeholder to the next step in the chain.
  * `.append("p")` — Takes the placeholder selection created by `enter()` and inserts a `p` element into the DOM.
    * Then it hands off a reference to the element it just created to the next step in the chain.

# `attr()` and `style()`
* `attr()` sets DOM attribute values, whereas `style()` applies CSS styles directly to an element.
* An HTML attribute is any property/value pair that you could include between an element’s `<>` brackets
* Note that an element’s class is stored as an HTML attribute. The class, in turn, is used to reference a CSS style rule.

> I recommend using classes for properties that are shared by multiple elements, and applying style rules directly only when deviating from the norm.

* `.attr("class", "bar")` is equivalent to `.classed("bar", true)`
* If false were specified, it would do the opposite, removing the class of bar from any elements in the selection.


# Multivalue Maps input

```js
svg.select("circle")
  .attr("cx", 0)
  .attr("cy", 0)
  .attr("fill", "red");

// is equivalent to

svg.select("circle")
      .attr({
        cx: 0,
        cy: 0,
        fill: red
      });
```

# Create bar chart with `div`

```js
var dataset = [ 5, 10, 13, 19, 21, 25, 22, 18, 15, 13,
                    11, 12, 15, 20, 18, 17, 16, 18, 23, 25 ];
d3.select("body").selectAll("div")
        .data(dataset)
		.enter()
		.append("div")
		.attr("class", "bar")
		.style("height", function(d) {
			var barHeight = d * 5;
			return barHeight + "px";
		});
```

# Create bar chart with svg rect

* The magic of "y" and "height" to make it upside down
  * draw from position `h - x`, and make the rectangle's height with `x` ==> which make the bottom to be equal at `h - x + x = h`!

```js
var h = 150;
var svg = d3.select("body").append("svg")
	.attr("width", 500)
	.attr("height", h);

svg.selectAll("rect")
   .data(dataset)
   .enter()
   .append("rect")
   .attr({ "x": function(d, i) { return i * 25; },
           "y": function(d) { return h - 5 * d; },
           "width": 24,
           "height": function(d) { return 5 * d; }
         });
```

# Create bar chart labels

```js
// continue from the snippet above
svg.selectAll("text")
   .data(dataset)
   .enter()
   .append("text")
   .text(function(d) { return d; })
   .attr({ "x": function(d, i) { return i * 25 + 3; /*move right a bit*/},
           "y": function(d) { return h - 5 * d + 20; /*move text down a bit*/},
           "width": 24,
           "height": function(d) { return 5 * d; },
           "fill": "white",
         });
```

# Create scatter plot

> when visualizing quantitative values with circles, make sure to encode the values as area, not as a circle’s radius.
  * `"r": function(d) { return Math.sqrt(h - d[1]);`

```js
var dataset = [
	[5, 20], [480, 90], [250, 50], [100, 33], [330, 95],
	[410, 12], [475, 44], [25, 67], [85, 21], [220, 88]
];
var h = 150;

var svg = d3.select("body")
	.append("svg")
	.attr("width", 500)
	.attr("height", h);

svg.selectAll("circle")
	.data(dataset)
	.enter()
	.append("circle")
	.attr({	"cx": function(d) { return d[0]; },
			"cy": function(d) { return d[1]; },
			"r": function(d) { return Math.sqrt(h - d[1]); }
	});
```
