---
layout: post
title: "Sorting"
excerpt: ""
categories: dsnalgo
tags: [algorithm, sorting]
comments: true
share: true
author: chungyu
---

# Sorting

["Sorting" @topcoder](https://www.topcoder.com/community/data-science/data-science-tutorials/sorting/)

["Sorting algorithm"@wiki](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sorting_algorithm)

## Things to consider:
- Runtime
- Memory space
- Stability
  -  In a stable sort, those elements whose comparison key is the same will remain in the same relative order after sorting as they were before sorting.
  - In an unstable sort, no guarantee is made as to the relative output order of those elements whose sort key is the same.

## Bubble Sort - O(n^2) runtime, O(1) memory overhead, stable
- The idea is to pass through the data from one end to the other, and swap two adjacent elements whenever the first is greater than the last. Thus, the smallest elements will “bubble” to the surface.
- n-th pass finds the n-th largest element and puts it into its final place.
- The positions of the elements in bubble sort will play a large part in determining its performance.
-  Large elements at the beginning of the list do not pose a problem, as they are quickly swapped. Small elements towards the end, however, move to the beginning extremely slowly.  [great visulization](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/3/37/Bubble_sort_animation.gif)

{% highlight python linenos %}
def bub_sort(nums):
  # n-pass / or using flag for no-swaping then terminate!
	for i in range(len(nums)):
		for j in range(1, len(nums)):
			if nums[j-1] > nums[j]:
				nums[j], nums[j-1] = nums[j-1], nums[j]
        #swap is regardless of i, every time u check from the beginning, i is for n-pass
{% endhighlight %}

## Insertion Sort - O(n^2) runtime, O(1) memory overhead, stable
- More efficient in practice than most other simple quadratic (i.e., O(n^2)) algorithms such as selection sort or bubble sort and usually faster in practice than asymptotically faster algorithms for **small** data sets
- Works very efficiently for lists that are nearly sorted initially. => can sort a list as it receives it


{% highlight python linenos %}
def insert_sort(nums):
	for i in range(len(nums)):
		for j in reversed(range(1, i+1)):
		# insert to the right position to its front
			if nums[j] < nums[j-1]:
				nums[j], nums[j-1] = nums[j-1], nums[j]
{% endhighlight %}

## Quicksort - O(n log n) runtime, Not a stable sort (In efficient implementations)
- Pick an element, called a pivot, from the array.
- Reorder the array so that all elements with values less than the pivot come before the pivot, while all elements with values greater than the pivot come after it (equal values can go either way).
- After this partitioning, the pivot is in its final position. This is called the partition operation.
- Recursively apply the above steps to the sub-array of elements with smaller values and separately to the sub-array of elements with greater values.

## Linear Time Sorting (Integer Sorting)
- assume keys sorting are integers
- Counting Sort & Radix Sort

## Counting Sort:
- 1. count the number of each item
- 2. sort the count into a register
- Like radix sort, but radix sort with each digit
