---
layout: post
title: "Hash"
excerpt: ""
categories: dsnalgo
tags: [data structure]
comments: true
share: true
author: chungyu
---

# Hash

## Resource
[Hashing with Chaining](http://goo.gl/3UCVBC)

## Why have
- Dictionary
  - Abstract Data Type (ADT): maintain set of items, each with a key
  - Supports:
    - insert(item): (overwrite any existing key)
    - delete(item)
    - search(key): return item with given key or report doesn't exist
  - O(logn) USING AVL Tree to search
  - How to search within constant time? HASH!

## Interesting Fact
- Python dictionary is basically built by hashing!
- variable -> memory is an application of hashing!
- In Python, why list can't be key?
  - Because list is mutable, which might mass up with hashing mechanism...
- If you make key to be integer, hash == array!
  - Array bad:
    - key might not be integers
    - But it might have gigantic memory hog

## How to solve array's bad features?
### Solution 1: PRE-Hashing
- maps keys to nonnegative integers
  - How?
    - Just use bits of string
    - in Python, hash(x) is thee prehash of x
    - in Python, this function could (little possibility) collide

### Solution 2: Hashing
- Main idea: reduce universal of all keys (integers) down to reasonable size m for table.
  - idea make m = theta(n), where n is dict
  - it might collition!

## To solve collition:
### Solution1: Chaining, using linked list
- Worst case: searching become O(n)
- Fortunately, under some assumption, it could be theoretically prove:
  - #### Assumption (1) uniform
    - Each key is equally likely to be hashed to any slot of the table,
  - #### Assumption (2) independent
    - independent of where other keys hashing

## Hash functions:
- Universal hashing: h(k) = [(ak+b) % p] % m
