---
layout: post
title: "SVN"
excerpt: ""
categories: knownotes
tags: [VCS]
comments: true
share: true
author: chungyu
---
> [tutorialspoint](https://www.tutorialspoint.com/svn/svn_basic_concepts.htm)




# Life Cycle
Create Repository => Checkout => Update => Perform Changes => Review Changes => Fix Mistakes => Resolve Conflicts => Commit Changes

###### Repository
* A repository is the central place where developers store all their work and the history.
* Repository is accessed over a network, acting as a server and version control tool acting as a client.
* Clients can connect to the repository, and then they can store/retrieve their changes to/from repository.
*  By storing changes, a client makes these changes available to other people and by retrieving changes, a client takes other people's changes as a working copy.
> Use a sane repository layout: The Subversion project officially recommends the idea of a "project root", which represents an anchoring point for a project. A "project root" contains exactly three subdirectories: /trunk, /branches, and /tags. A repository may contain only one project root, or it may contain a number of them. --- [Subversion Best Practices](https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/subversion/trunk/doc/user/svn-best-practices.html)

###### Trunk
* The trunk is a directory where all the main development happens and is usually checked out by developers to work on the project.

###### Tags
* The tags directory is used to store named snapshots of the project.
* Tag operation allows to give descriptive and memorable names to specific version in the repository.
* When creating a production release, the team will tag the code that goes into the release.

###### Checkout
* create a working copy from the repository.

###### Working copy
* Working copy is a snapshot of the repository.
* The repository is shared by all the teams, but people do not modify it directly.
* Instead each developer checks out the working copy. The working copy is a private workplace where developers can do their work remaining isolated from the rest of the team.

###### Branches
* Branch operation is used to create another line of development. It is useful when you want your development process to fork off into two different directions.

###### Update
* 'update' operation is used to update working copy.
* This operation synchronizes the working copy with the repository

###### Status
* lists the modifications that have been made to the working copy.
* whenever you do changes in the working copy all these changes become a part of the pending change-list. And the 'status' operation is used to see the pending change-list.

###### Revert
* Operation reverts the modifications that have been made to the working copy.
* It is possible to revert one or more files/directories.
* Also it is possible to revert the whole working copy. In this case, the 'revert' operation will destroy the pending change-list and will bring the working copy back to its original state.

###### Resolve
* 'Merge' operation automatically handles everything that can be done safely. Everything else is considered as conflict.
* 'resolve' operation is used to help the user figure out things and to inform VCS about the ways of handling the conflicts.

###### Commit
* Commit is a process of storing changes from private workplace to central server.
* After commit, changes are made available to all the team.
* Other developers can retrieve these changes by updating their working copy.
* Commit is an atomic operation. Either the whole commit succeeds or is rolled back. Users never see half finished commit.
> Commit logical changesets: When you commit a change to the repository, make sure your change reflects a single purpose: the fixing of a specific bug, the addition of a new feature, or some particular task. Your commit will create a new revision number which can forever be used as a "name" for the change. You can mention this revision number in bug databases, or use it as an argument to svn merge should you want to undo the change or port it to another branch.

---

# [Interesting read](Subversion vs. Git: Myths and Facts)
* Git repositories are significantly smaller than equivalent Subversion ones? False
* Branches are expensive in Subversion? False
* It is required to manually specify the range of revisions when you merge two branches in Subversion? False (outdated)
* There is an auxiliary .svn directory in each folder of Subversion working copy? False (outdated)
* Nobody uses Subversion anymore? False
* Distributed version control systems are inherently superior to centralized ones such as Subversion? There is a parity.
* Git scales well for larger projects? False. Larger projects become split into a number of smaller repositories.
* Git scales well for larger teams? Certain workflow limitations exist.
* Merge operation is always painful in Subversion? Spotted problems exist.

> Distributed version control systems (DVCS) are just another approach to implement revision control. As it always happens, different approaches have their pros and cons. DVCS may be great for certain projects, but they have a number of limitations that become roadblocks for others: no access control, full copy of repository on every computer, no exclusive files locks and so on.

> There is no practical limit for Subversion repository size and multiple projects can be stored in a monolithic repository without any restrictions.

> While Git is successfully used for such crowded open source projects with thousands of involved developers as Linux Kernel, it may not scale well for other large teams with different workflows.

> Thanks to mixed-revision working copies, Subversion allows better concurrent work because only the individual files in question must be up-to-date before promotion.

> In most cases merges become painful in Subversion only if you have file or folder renames in the merged branches. Due to historical reasons, Subversion doesn’t properly track file and folder renames (mostly because file renames rarely happened before refactorings were invented). Best practices to prevent tree conflicts during merge are simple: limit file and folder renames in branches, prefer to refactor code in the trunk
